---
layout: post
title: Burrito Bandit
date: 2005-09-02T01:42:35
tags: Feature
categories: stories
---

I, Mark Benson, self-proclaimed half-Mexican, and innocent victim of blue-
collar crime, submit earnest testimony against the nameless and nefarious
victimizer whom henceforth shall be known as the Burrito Bandit.


On Wednesday, the 31st and final day of August, 2005, at 1:13 PM (GMT-06:00),
I made my way to the fridge located in the kitchen on the 2nd floor of the
building my employer rents from for a lunchtime snickety snack.

I was looking forward to gustation that day, since I had brought two tasty
Casa Mamita hot beef & bean microwavable burritos for fast, convenient, and
sumptuous consumption. As I opened the fridge door, to grab my greazy meal, I
was flabbergasted to find that my tortilla-wrapped meat bombs had been stolen.

**Denial and Isolation**

Gone? Gone? How could they be gone? What was happening? This couldn't be. This
was my comfort food and my daily ration. No one in their right mind would
steal a burrito, let alone two burritos. I checked again; still nothing. I
thought maybe I had put them in the freezer. I closed the fridge door and
opened the freezer--nothing. I didn't know what to do; I was dumbfounded. I
looked around the room searching for guilty expressions, or sympathy. Everyone
seemed to be busily at work and well-fed.

I felt alone.

**Anger**

As I dizzily closed the freezer door and stumbled back to my desk, I wondered
which one of my co-workers had comitted this malicious atrocity. It was during
this time that my denial turned to anger.

I started mumbling cross things under my breath and fantisized about sending
an Email to the entire company riddled with angst, irritation, and fury,
demanding that the Burrito Bandit step out of the dark and sinful crevice that
he/she calls home, admits to burrito-napping, admits to burrito-cide, and
publicly apologizes not just to me, but Casa Mamita and the entire country of
Mexico.

**Bargaining**

I opened Outlook, hit Ctrl+Shift+M for a new message, and started writing to
my wife about how I had just been victimized. Surely she'd give me the
sympathy I was looking for. Afterall, she's the one that reminds me to eat
everyday, and without whom I'd clearly starve of mal-nutrition.

My wife immediately responded by expressing her deep-felt sorrow for my
situation--just what I was looking for--and offered to come and pick me up and
take me out to eat. I humbly declined, but thanked her for listening to my
plight.

After my conversation with my wife, my anger was subdued (as is the usual),
and I started thinking what I could have done to pre-empt the Burrito Bandit
from comitting the crime. What if I ate earlier in the day? What if I had not
brought burritos? Would the Burrito Bandit steal nourishment regardless of its
ethnic origin?

My thoughts drifted further, to Minority Report, and dreams of writing
software to predict crime, where one day, I could know when the Burrito Bandit
would strike and could apprehend him/her before the immorral act was comitted.

**Depression**

I knew better than that, however. I'm only a bush-league hack programmer,
fresh out of school, a greenhorn tenderfoot still wet behind the ears. I'm not
going to be able to write a program like that. I knew it.

The control I was starting to feel over the situation turned to heavy
depression. I sank in my Herman Miller Aeron chair, crossed my arms limply and
sulked with a pouty face.

**Acceptance**

I went home that night, to a dinner of french-onion rump roast with potatoes
and carrots. This was just what the doctor ordered, as I'm sure you can
understand--I was obviously famished.

After 20 minutes of digestion, I was ready to rethink the day, and how I
should respond. With the help of my wife and a little one-on-one time with our
hammock, I was able to accept the tradgedy and come to terms of forgiveness
with the Burrito Bandit.

I felt peace. I felt contentment. I felt something akin to an out-of-body
experience where I could see myself objectively from a distance. I was at
once, a friend to myself, and a friend to the friend I imagined would by my
friend till the end. I'm telling you, it was bliss.

The following day I brought two more Casa Mamita burritos to work, fully
believing that whomever the Burrito Bandit was, had made an honest mistake--
possibly just taken the wrong burrito--and that in this crazy thing we call
life, our task is merely to press on.

As I opened the fridge door, to place my sustenence on the top shelf, I
noticed something strange: a mysterious brown paper bag. Immediately, I knew
the identity of the Burrito Bandit. I remembered that I had brought my edibles
the day before in a brown bag, similar to the one I was laying eyes on. Yes,
the bag contained the missing duel grenades. The mysterious Burrito Bandit
was... me.


