---
layout: post
title: Mr. Afro's Barbershop
date: 2006-01-25T11:24:14
tags: Afro,Astronaut-Heiny,Barber,Barbershop,Beard,Boob Tube,Braids,Broadway Liquor,Buzz,College,Corn Rolls,Feature,Haircut,Hi-Top Fade,JJ's Used Furniture,Marriage,Master Cuts,Mustache,NCAA,Wahl
categories: stories
---

I can count on one hand, the number of people who have cut my hair. Growing
up, I granted exclusive rights to my Ma. In college, I graduated to cutting my
own hair, which meant that every quarter-year, I'd brush off the $12 Wahls,
snap on a dismembered no. 2, and buzz myself an Astronaut-Heiny.


I've only paid for a haircut once in my life, and that was at an amateurish
suburban Master Cuts two weeks before I got hitched. At this point in my life,
I'm not a fan of forking dough in return for chopped locks--especially from
someone outside the family. It's just not my gig.

One Saturday recently, after re-reading part of a book about a Barber (don't
ask), I decided that I was ready to go to a barbershop. I opened the phone
book, took a look, and saw that "Mr. Afro's Barbershop" was only three blocks
away from my house, right between Broadway Liquor and JJ's Used Furniture on
26th. I knew right where to go so I threw on a jacket, some shoes, and got my
stride on.

As I opened the door to Mr. A's, and started inside, I suddenly found myself
face-to-torso with an extremely tall (6' 5" at least) African American man. I
leaned sideways to look around him, and found that the entire place, which was
full of large African American men had stopped what they were doing, and were
silently staring in my direction.

After what seemed like 20 minutes, one of the Barbers said exuberantly, "What
up Playa'?" In an instant, the silence was broken, conversations resumed,
haircuts continued, and the man in front of me stepped aside and said, "Come
on in and have a seat, Bro'."

Sitting in the waiting area, I twiddled my thumbs. NCAA basketball was
flickering on the boob tube and I noticed that there was a sign indicating
that they took cash only, and my hairstyle options were:

  * Braids
  * Hi-Top Fade
  * Beard and Mustache Trim
  * Afro
  * Corn Rolls

Since I didn't have long-enough bangs for Braids or the Hi-Top Fade, I didn't
have a beard or a mustache at the time, and I don't really look that great
with an Afro ([I've tried](http://flickr.com/photos/markbenson/91687999/)), I
figured that Corn Rolls were my only option. But Corn Rolls were $17 and I
only had $15 with me. There was no ATM around, and I didn't especially feel
like asking anyone to spot me the change so I left.

_The End_


