---
layout: post
title: Goodbye Furbowski
date: 2006-03-10T02:37:48
categories: stories
---

Chad, a childhood friend of mine, had a gerbil named Furball. Furball was a
sort of runt--barely 50 grams--a disadvantage he lived with throughout his
short 6-month life in a cage with some woodchips, rocks, and an oversized
wheel for exercise. Furball was the Tiny Tim of Gerbilshire.


Sometimes, we'd bring out the "Gerbil Ball" which was a semi-transparent
purple orb with a hinged trap door just big enough to slip Furball through.
Once inside, Furball would have the run of the house, exploring all corners
and smells.

One day, my friend Ryan and I rode our bikes over to Chad's house to play some
Major League Baseball on the Nintendo. We were greeted at the door by Chad's
Mother. She told us that Furball had just "passed on" and that Chad was
conducting a burial ceremony in the back yard.

Ryan and I quietly went through the living room, through the kitchen, and out
on to the deck, where we could privately view the somber commemoration.

Once on the deck, we could see that the shallow, uncovered grave had already
been dug, and Furball had been lowered to rest. We were somewhat surprised,
however, to see that our dear friend Chad was marching around the yard, in his
Boy Scout uniform, singing a patriotic tribute to Furball to the tune of _God
Bless America_.

After what seemed like a few minutes, Chad finished singing, stopped marching,
stood at attention, saluted with 3 fingers, and said with a trembling voice,
"Goodbye Furbowski." Ryan and I immediately burst out laughing, which startled
Chad--he didn't know we were there.

Looking back on that time, I realize now, it was a mean thing to laugh at my
friend Chad. Chad, I'm sorry. And I never got a chance to say goodbye to
Furbowski myself.

Goodbye Furbowski.


