---
layout: post
title: First Hunt
date: 2006-03-19 04:50:05
categories: stories
---

I went into the woods a boy, and returned a man, for I have killed a squirrel.
Like all men before me, I have reached the age of accountability, claimed rite
of passage, and finalized my coming of age.


## Student

In 8th grade, I bought a BB gun, in the form of an oversized pistol, with room
in the chamber for a solitary BB. I used it to shoot cans, and homemade pellet
traps, but soon discovered that to attain mastery, I needed a moving target.

## Householder

I went with my friend Jared--who had recently acquired a blow-gun--to his
grandpa's farm, to walk around and look for things to shoot. We shot some
trees and saw a few birds, but they were too far off, flying too fast, or were
too small.

Finally, Jared spotted a squirrel, happily running around the top of a tree.
The squirrel was clearly out of range for Jared's blow gun, but definitely in-
range for my BB gun. Jared and I looked at each other, and knew without a
word, _it was time_.

## Forest Dweller

I steadied my adolescent legs, took aim, and shot, hitting the squirrel
squarely, knocking it off its branch, causing it to start tumbling down the
tree, flipping and flopping, crashing into limbs, breaking twigs, and making
an odd sound that could only be described as, "wounded squirrel." It met the
ground with an earthy _thud_.

Immediately, the squirrel and I met eyes. There was a silence that ensued, and
in my mind, I could all but hear whistling tumbleweeds rolling through. It was
a shootout, at high noon, in the west, and we were waiting for the clock to
strike 12.

Abruptly, the squirrel started crawling towards me vigorously with its wounded
front paw, as I grabbed for my pistol. Not expecting that I would need to fire
another shot so quickly, my chamber was empty. I frantically loaded another
BB, pumped 10 times, and shot. The squirrel, in its immortality, continued on,
un-fazed. I started backing up and tripped a little, as I loaded my pistol a
third time; the squirrel was closing in.

I fired another round into the squirrel which significantly slowed it, but
didn't stop it. This Terminator squirrel just wouldn't die. As I continued to
load my gun a fourth time, I whined to Jared that I didn't like hunting any
more, but he encouraged me that the only humane thing left to do, was to put
the animal out of its misery. I reluctantly fired the final round.

## Wandering Ascetic

Jared and I stood silently for a few moments. The death of this squirrel
simultaneously signified the end of adolescence, and the beginning of
adulthood. Jared quietly took a stick and pitched the lifeless body into the
weeds, and we walked back to the farm-house, drove home, and didn't talk about
it ever again.

I am now a man.


