---
layout: post
title: Man in the Well
date: 2007-01-20T12:30:14
categories: stories
---

I read _[Jayber Crow](http://www.amazon.com/gp/redirect.html?ie=UTF8&location=
http%3A%2F%2Fwww.amazon.com%2FJayber-Crow-Wendell-
Berry%2Fdp%2F1582431604&tag=jayber-20&linkCode=ur2&camp=1789&creative=9325)_
by Wendell Berry again. Although I relish the book enough to be tempted to
formalize a perennial reading, there's something about the idea of "planning"
to read a book like this that just doesn't fit with the natural order of
things.


Spoiler warning: plot details follow.

## Heaven

This is ultimately a book about Heaven. It's about seeing God in the details:
reflections in the water, cool breezes, and mustard seeds that blend in with
sand. The themes of the book are told through the story of one man's life as a
barber in a small town (Port William) in Kentucky, with an introspective
narrative that carefully describes traditional agrarian values and forgotten
virtues such as justice, hope, faith and peace. In Jayber's own words:

> This is a book about Heaven, but I must say too that it has been a close
call. For I have wondered sometimes if it would not finally turn out to be a
book about Hell--where we fail to love one another, where we hate and destroy
one another for reasons abundantly provided or for righteousness' sake or for
pleasure, where we destroy the things we need the most, where we see no hope
and have no faith, where we are needy and alone, where things that ought to
stay together fall apart, where there is such a groaning travail of
selfishness in all its forms, where we love one another and die, where we must
lose everything to know what we have had.

## Forgiveness

It seems that each time I read this book, I think about something different.
This time, it was forgiveness. Throughout Jayber's life, there was one person
whom he acted consistently (and privately) unwelcome towards: Troy Chatham.
Troy acted as antithesis to the ideals that Jayber upheld and symbolized the
Industrial Economy and all the problems it brought to Port William. For some
of these reasons, and others which I will not spoil, Troy ended up being
someone that Jayber could not forgive until the end of his life. Jayber
describes his own forgiveness as well as his forgiveness of Troy Chatham in
the following story titled "Man in the Well".

## Man in the Well

> But faith is not necessarily, or not soon, a resting place. Faith puts you
out on a wide river in a little boat, in the fog, in the dark. Even a man of
faith knows that (as Burley Coulter used to say) we've all got to go through
enough to kill us. As a man of faith, I've thought a considerable amount about
a friend of mine (imagined, but also real) I call the Man in the Well.

>

> The now wooded, or rewooded, slopes and hollows hereabouts are strewn with
abandoned homesteads, the remains of another kind of world. Most of them by
now have no buildings left. Everything about them that would rot has rotted.
What you find now in those places when you come upon them are the things that
were built of stone: foundations, cellars, chimneys, wells. Sometimes the
wells are deep, dug to the bedrock and beyond, and walled with rock laid up
without mortar. Virtually every rock in a structure like that, if it is built
right, is a keystone; it can't move in or out. Those walls, laid underground
where there is no freezing and thawing, will last, I guess, almost forever.

>

> Sometimes the well is the only structure remaining, and there will be no
visible sign of it. It will be covered with old boards in some stage of decay,
green with moss or covered with leaves. It is a perfect trap, and now and then
you find that rabbits and groundhogs have blundered in and drowned. A man too
could blunder into one.

>

> Imagine a hunter, somebody from a city some distance away, who has a job he
doesn't like, and who has come alone out into the country to hunt on a
Saturday. It is a beautiful, perfect full day, and the Man feels free. He has
left all his constraints and worries and fears behind. Nobody knows where he
is. Anybody who wanted to complain or accuse or collect a debt could not find
him. The morning that started frosty has grown warm. The sky seems to give its
luster to everything in the world. The Man feels strong and fine. His gun lies
ready in the crook of his arm, though he really doesn't care whether he finds
game or not. He has a sandwich and a candy bar in his coat pocket. And then,
not looking where he is going, which is easy enough on such a day, he steps
onto the rotten boards that cover one of those old wells, and down he goes.

>

> He disappears suddenly out of the lighted world. He falls so quickly that he
doesn't have time even to ask what is happening. He hits water, goes under,
comes up, swims, or clings to the wall, inserting his fingers between the
rocks. And now, I think, you cannot help imagining the way it would be with
him. He looks up and sees how far down he has come. The sky that was so large
and reassuring only seconds ago is now just a small blue picture of itself,
far away. His first thought is that he is alone, that nobody knows where he
is; these two great pleasures that were his freedom have now become his
prison, perhaps his tomb. He calls out (for might not somebody chance to be
nearby, just as he chanced to fall into the well?) and he hears himself
enclosed within the sound of his own calling voice.

>

> How does this story end? Does he save himself? Is he athletic enough, maybe,
to get his boots off and climb out, clawing with fingers and toes into the
grudging holds between the rocks of the wall? Does he climb up and fall back?
Does somebody, in fact, for a wonder, chance to pass nearby and hear him? Does
he despair, give up, and drown? Does he, despairing, pray finally the first
true prayer of his life?

>

> Listen. there is a light that includes our darkness, a day that shines down
even on the clouds. A man of faith believes that the Man in the Well is not
lost. He does not believe this easily or without pain, but he believes it. His
belief is a kind of knowledge beyond any way of knowing. He believes that the
child in the womb is not lost, nor is the man who's work has come to nothing,
nor is the old woman forsaken in a nursing home in California. He believes
that those who make their bed in Hell are not lost, or those who dwell in the
uttermost parts of the sea, or the lame man at Bethesda Pool, or Lazarus in
the grave, or those who pray, _"Eli, Eli, lama sabachthani."_

>

> Have Mercy.

[Magnanimous Despair alone  
Could show me so divine a thing
...](http://www.poets.org/viewmedia.php/prmMID/16162)


