---
layout: post
title: Airborne
date: 2007-02-05 08:04:00
categories: stories
---

I've been in a few car accidents in my life--one of which sent my brother, my
brother's friend, my Mom, and myself, soaring over an icy jump, howling in
unison while we gripped the hand-holds of our fearlessly airborne Celebrity
wagon.


The day started with a trip from Willmar to St. Cloud to play indoor Tennis.
On the way back, the highway was packed with snow and ice, but we were
cruising along nevertheless, peacefully listening to the radio.

My Mom was driving, I was riding shotgun, and my little brother and his friend
were in the backseat. When we were just entering Willmar--right in front of
the Highway 71 Bait Shop on Eagle Lake--a man in a red truck pulled out in
front of us from a farm road and forced us to change lanes.

Mom, with her usual feline reflexes, started changing lanes, but the road was
too slick and we started sliding. Immediately we headed towards the ditch that
separated North and Southbound lanes.

As we were sliding out of control, I looked to my right and out the window I
saw a mound of snow--definitely bigger than the car--fast approaching. I
panicked, but didn't know what to do, so I did what I knew best: clenched my
teeth and squeezed the door handle.

We hit the jump going ~50 mph and did a cute little [Front-Side
Ollie](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Ollie_\(skateboarding_trick\)) while every
person in the car let out simultaneous screeches of various volumes and tones:

  * Mom let out a muted howl that got cut short as soon as we hit the ramp--kind of like the sound you make when you get sucka'-punched in the kidney.
  * My voice cracked (I was a teen) as I nervously said with a volume that was louder than I planned: "here we go!"
  * Our precious cargo (two pre-pubescent boys) were giggling with joy in the backseat like a pair of Vienna Choir Boys at Disney Land, enjoying our extended hang-time and view of the world.

When we finally landed, the car almost rolled over on its topside, but ended
up stabilizing on all four rims. Mom removed her seatbelt and took a frantic
census to see if everyone was alive--which we were. I had conked my head on
the window a bit, but nothing serious.

The really amazing thing about all this was that we called a tow truck
thinking that there was no way we were going to drive home after taking a jump
like that. The tow truck driver, however, popped the tires back on the car,
filled them up with air, and we proceeded to drive the rest of the way home.

The man in the red truck? He didn't see us, didn't stop, and we never saw him
again.

The End


