---
layout: post
title: Swim Unit
date: 2008-05-20T06:53:09
tags: Junior High,Stories,Swim-Unit
categories: stories
---

Hunched, shivering, goose-pimply and bare, I assembled with other pubescent
boys on the wet, slippery, and slimy concrete of our Junior High locker room
after a pre-swim rinse. I could smell the dry chlorine in the air, and had
already started prophesying to myself the inevitable ashy dander that would
ensue that afternoon in the form of an anhydrous itchy epidermis.


I could see our commanding gym teacher strolling towards us from his office
while whistling a confident but unidentifiable and ugly tune. (Why did he
always do that?) He was carrying an orange 5-gallon pale and a clipboard for
roll-call.

When he got near, he dropped the bucket from a distance too high to be
considered careful, and as it hit the concrete, it startled us and made an
echoing and hollow thud which reverberated through the cavernous shower room.

Each of us stood quietly wide-eyed, anticipating the unknown thing we would be
forced to do next. Then, without notice, he dropped his clipboard to his
thigh, turned his right foot 90 degrees outward, shifted his weight to his
left hip and assumed an awkward pose that seemed as though he were about to
demonstrate a textbook touch-pass.

With his extended right foot, he kicked the pale of tiny, cold, wet, Speedo
swimsuits to the center of our mass, and said unsympathetically as though he
were a raspy-voiced and condescending army sergeant who yelled and smoked too
much, "Strap 'em on, boys".

After entering the pool, we sat impatiently to be inspected for Scoliosis. The
girls (who where just finishing their own swim unit) skittered past us like a
set of nervous ants trying to orient themselves to a nest that didn't exist.

It was at this point, as I looked down the row of us boys, observing our
varying reactions to the girls that were walking by, that I realized that
there were two kinds of people in my class: those that were popular,
confident, and coordinated; and those that had an inborn mistrust of their
personal adequacy as men.

I was an accepting member of the latter, but wished dearly that I could
somehow skip adolescence before my weakness could be solidified further.
Unfortunately, as I would find out, I would just have to wait.


